[DOCS] `convert_model()` as a default conversion path (#17454)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/MO_DG/Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide.md

> # How to Convert a Model {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide}

Reviewer: If the article or a section is of the instruction type, the typical "how-to" document, I would try to indicate it in the name. So I prefer "Convert a Model" ... "Model Conversion" would suggest a wider topic, maybe a section including a how-to but also some reference-type documentation.

   openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_Model_Optimizer_FAQ

> To convert a model to IR, you can use the following command:

Reviewer 2: Not exactly to IR, but to OpenVINO model. IR is just a serialized representation of the model and it produced immediately by `mo`, but not by `mo.convert_model` which will be showed by default in the next example block.

Author: > Not exactly to IR, but to OpenVINO model. IR is just a serialized representation of the model and it produced immediately by `mo`, but not by `mo.convert_model` which will be showed by default in the next example block.

```suggestion
To convert a model to OpenVINO model format (``ov.Model``), you can use the following command:
```

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: mo CLI tool
       :sync: cli-tool

       .. code-block:: sh

          mo --input_model INPUT_MODEL

    .. tab-item:: mo Python API
       :sync: mo-python-api

       .. code-block:: python

          from openvino.tools.mo import convert_model
          ov_model = convert_model(INPUT_MODEL)

       .. note::

>           The ``input_model`` argument is optional. The first unnamed argument will be used as ``input_model``, therefore, both ``convert_model(input_model=mode)`` and ``convert_model(model)`` will have the same effect.

Reviewer 2: Where is it optional? This is not true for CLI. In Python example there is no mentioning any `input_model` argument. @rkazants, @popovaan, @andrei-kochin you said that this document is ready. I can make a conclusion that it is not.

>           You do not need to specify the ``input_model`` parameter explicitly. The parameter can be set as an unnamed argument and then it will be used as input ``model``. Therefore, both ``convert_model(input_model=model)`` and ``convert_model(model)`` will have the same effect.

Reviewer 2: It hasn't been completely fixed:

![image](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/assets/29092471/c1e8932e-e3e0-443a-8604-56202c9456ef)

You see that there is no `input_model` parameter in the example. It is better to omit this note completely.

Author: I implemented the changes with [fc9ce04](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/pull/17454/commits/fc9ce049bc7d3622434764522eabd9afc4fe7184) commit.

Model Optimizer is a cross-platform command-line tool that facilitates the transition between training and deployment environments, performs static model analysis, and adjusts deep learning models for optimal execution on end-point target devices.

To use it, you need a pre-trained deep learning model in one of the supported formats: TensorFlow, PyTorch, PaddlePaddle, TensorFlow Lite, MXNet, Caffe, Kaldi, or ONNX. Model Optimizer converts the model to the OpenVINO Intermediate Representation format (IR), which you can infer later with :doc:`OpenVINO™ Runtime <openvino_docs_OV_UG_OV_Runtime_User_Guide>`.

Note that Model Optimizer does not infer models.

The figure below illustrates the typical workflow for deploying a trained deep learning model:

.. image:: _static/images/BASIC_FLOW_MO_simplified.svg

where IR is a pair of files describing the model:

* ``.xml`` - Describes the network topology.

* ``.bin`` - Contains the weights and biases binary data.

> The OpenVINO IR can be additionally optimized for inference by :doc:`Post-training optimization <pot_introduction>` that applies post-training quantization methods.

Author: It's only been removed, as requested in JIRA ticket: 109837, by @popovaan 

I will reinstate the removed content and apply the relevant changes for `Model Optimizer` only.

> The OpenVINO IR can be additionally optimized for inference by :doc:`Post-training optimization <pot_introduction>` that applies post-training quantization methods.

Reviewer 3: I asked to remove it here because I expected that this information will be in "Model Preparation" section which introduces different conversion tools.

> The OpenVINO IR can be additionally optimized for inference by :doc:`Post-training optimization <pot_introduction>` that applies post-training quantization methods.

Author: > I asked to remove it here because I expected that this information will be in "Model Preparation" section which introduces different conversion API's (convert_model, read_model and MO cli tool).

Forgive me, but the changes I have made were premised on clear-cut instructions provided in the attachments found in the 109837 Jira ticket, not expectations.

> The OpenVINO IR can be additionally optimized for inference by :doc:`Post-training optimization <pot_introduction>` that applies post-training quantization methods.

Reviewer 3: No worries, just add this to "Model Preparation".

> The OpenVINO IR can be additionally optimized for inference by :doc:`Post-training optimization <pot_introduction>` that applies post-training quantization methods.

Author: Have added the text to `Model Preparation` article with the [11c4f5172d](https://github.com/sgolebiewski-intel/openvino/commit/11c4f5172dbb75201cf56adb321e6c3f9bcc97b0) commit.

> To convert a model to IR, you can run model conversion API by using the following command:

Author: > You are running exactly `mo` CLI tool, this is more specific thing than `model conversion API`.

As long as we provide both CLI and Python examples below, we can use a more general concept:

```suggestion
To convert a model to IR, you can use the following command:
```

> If the out-of-the-box conversion (only the ``input_model`` parameter is specified) is not successful, use the parameters mentioned below to override input shapes and cut the model:

Reviewer 2: Just previous example is still in CLI constasting with this Python API shift. They are not aligned. Please provide a Python example above. Also please reflect the fact that `input_model` argument is optional. So the first unnamed argument will be used as input_model making both `convert_model(input_model=mode)` and `convert_model(model)` having the same effect. This is unfortunately different for `mo` called as CLI and `convert_model`, so CLI `mo` alsways requires `--input_model`. CCed @popovaan.

Author: It's been addressed with the [3d74c34](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/pull/17454/commits/3d74c34c3cbb175693eb296bc60e6dbd3cded)d68 commit.

the ``mean_values``, ``scales_values``, ``layout``, and other parameters described
in the :doc:`Embedding Preprocessing Computation <openvino_docs_MO_DG_Additional_Optimization_Use_Cases>` article.

> The ``compress_to_fp16`` compression parameter in model conversion API allows generating IR with constants (for example, weights for convolutions and matrix multiplications) compressed to ``FP16`` data type. For more details, refer to the :doc:`Compression of a Model to FP16 <openvino_docs_MO_DG_FP16_Compression>` guide.

Author: ```suggestion
The ``compress_to_fp16`` compression parameter in MO command-line tool allows generating IR with constants (for example, weights for convolutions and matrix multiplications) compressed to ``FP16`` data type. For more details, refer to the :doc:`Compression of a Model to FP16 <openvino_docs_MO_DG_FP16_Compression>` guide.
```

> To get the full list of conversion parameters available in model conversion API, run the following command:

Author: ```suggestion
To get the full list of conversion parameters available in MO command-line tool, run the following command:
```

.. code-block:: sh

   mo --help

> Examples of Conversion API parameters

Author: ```suggestion
Examples of MO command-line parameters
```

#####################################

> Below is a list of separate examples for different frameworks and model conversion API parameters:

Author: ```suggestion
Below is a list of separate examples for different frameworks and MO command-line parameters:
```

> 1. Launch model conversion API for a TensorFlow MobileNet model in the binary protobuf format:

Reviewer 4: Below, the command-line is for the tool and not for Model Conversion API. So here we have misalignment between what you say and command shared below

> 1. Launch model conversion API for a TensorFlow MobileNet model in the binary protobuf format:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Launch MO command line tool for a TensorFlow MobileNet model in the binary protobuf format:
```

   .. code-block:: sh

      mo --input_model MobileNet.pb

>    Launch model conversion API for a TensorFlow BERT model in the SavedModel format with three inputs. Specify input shapes explicitly where the batch size and the sequence length equal 2 and 30 respectively:

Author: ```suggestion
   Launch MO command line tool for a TensorFlow BERT model in the SavedModel format with three inputs. Specify input shapes explicitly where the batch size and the sequence length equal 2 and 30 respectively:
```

   .. code-block:: sh

      mo --saved_model_dir BERT --input mask,word_ids,type_ids --input_shape [2,30],[2,30],[2,30]

      For more information, refer to the :doc:`Converting a TensorFlow Model <openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_Convert_Model_From_TensorFlow>` guide.

> 2. Launch model conversion API for an ONNX OCR model and specify new output explicitly:

Author: ```suggestion
2. Launch MO for an ONNX OCR model and specify new output explicitly:
```

   For more information, refer to the :doc:`Converting a PaddlePaddle Model <openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_Convert_Model_From_Paddle>` guide.

> 4. Launch model conversion API for an Apache MXNet SSD Inception V3 model and specify first-channel layout for the input:

Author: ```suggestion
4. Launch MO for an Apache MXNet SSD Inception V3 model and specify first-channel layout for the input:
```

   For more information, refer to the :doc:`Converting an Apache MXNet Model <openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_Convert_Model_From_MxNet>` guide.

> 5. Launch model conversion API for a Caffe AlexNet model with input channels in the RGB format which needs to be reversed:

Author: ```suggestion
5. Launch MO for a Caffe AlexNet model with input channels in the RGB format which needs to be reversed:
```

   For more information, refer to the :doc:`Converting a Caffe Model <openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_Convert_Model_From_Caffe>` guide.

> 6. Launch model conversion API for a Kaldi LibriSpeech nnet2 model:

Author: ```suggestion
6. Launch MO for a Kaldi LibriSpeech nnet2 model:
```
